# MDRE Process Assignment
#### Large Scale Requirements Engineering (PA2521)
#### Akshay Kumar Magapu
#### akma15@student.bth.se

#### This file consists of the articles, questions and their answers which are given for homework.


# Seminar 0

## Questions:

1. What is large scale requirements engineering?

2. What are the challenges in large-scale requirements engineering?

3. What is the order of magnitude of the number of requirements we are discussing?

4. Read and summarize (Strategic) release planning.

## Search log:

((((requirements engineering) WN KY) AND ((large scale) WN KY)) AND ((challenges) WN KY)) keyword search in INSPEC database.

## References

[1]. B. Regnell, R. B. Svensson, and K. Wnuk, “Can we beat the complexity of very large-scale requirements engineering?,” in Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 2008, vol. 5025 LNCS, pp. 123–128. <br>

[2]. G. Sabaliauskaite, A. Loconsole, E. Engström, M. Unterkalmsteiner, B. Regnell, P. Runeson, T. Gorschek, and R. Feldt, “Challenges in aligning requirements engineering and verification in a large-scale industrial context,” Lect. Notes Comput. Sci., vol. 6182 LNCS, pp. 128–142, 2010. <br>

[3]. S. Konrad and M. Gall, “Requirements Engineering in the Development of Large-Scale Systems,” 2008 16th IEEE Int. Requir. Eng. Conf., pp. 217–222, 2008. <br>

## Summary for above references

[1]. Complexity increases while handling the requirements in very large-scale requirements engineering. The authors identified the key research opportunities in this domain. Based on the size of requirements there are four orders of magnitude: In small-scale requirements engineering the order of magnitude is more than 10 requirements, in medium-scale requirements engineering the order of magnitude is more than 100 requirements, in large-scale requirements engineering the order of magnitude is more than 1000 requirements and in very large-scale requirements engineering the order of magnitude is more than 10,000 requirements. So the complexity level is described based on the number of requirements because these includes the number of customers, end-users, developers, product features. Also, complexity depends upon the dependencies between the requirements as in large scale and very large scale requirements engineering the dependencies between requirements are high compared to small and medium-scale requirements engineering. In this paper, a case study is done at Sony Ericsson which had a transition from Large-scale requirements engineering to very large-scale requirements engineering. As there are many stakeholders in internal and external categories, market-driven requirements which are originated from external stakeholder are generated by many operators with thousands of requirements such that total number of requirements exceeded more than ten thousand. So to decrease the complexity level of the requirements, the requirements are bundled into features with small units and written in natural language with set of properties so to easily allocate in requirement management tool. Based on the case study the authors bring forward three key research opportunities. <br>
   
  Sustainable requirements architecture: fighting information overload. <br>
  How to manage the information overload while developing and execution of previous requirements? <br>
   
  Effective requirements abstraction: fighting combinatorial explosion. <br>
  How to effectively abstract the requirements and combinations of requirements. <br>
   
  Emergent quality prediction: fighting over-scoping. <br>
  How to deal with dependencies among quality requirements and how to predict the effort for a large scope of the system. <br>
   
  By knowing the solutions to these problems, managing the complexity of the requirements and predicting system quality aspects can become easy. <br>
   
[2]. The main goal of the paper is to find the challenges while aligning the requirement engineering and verification process, as coordination between the requirement and verification process is significant to assure the customer satisfaction. So to know the challenges authors conducted an interview-based research in large software development company. Also based on pre-understanding to the authors, designed a conceptual model which consists of three dimensions and used as a guide while conducting interviews. <br>
  
  i. Abstract level dimension: It consists of test artifacts which can be used to verify code and also requirements. <br>
 ii. Time dimension: Changes in the process, product, and project as per time. <br>
 iii. Dimension of product lines: It addresses the variability while developing a product in product line engineering approach. <br>
   
 Based on interviews, the identified challenges faced by the company are: <br>
 Organization and process issues in which communication problems, documentation standard problems, who is responsible for the decision problem and also many organization unit’s involvements leads to a lot of confusion. <br>
 People issues in which there is a lack of understanding each individual work in the company, lack of communication and cooperation. <br>
 Tools issues in which lack of adequate software tools to categorize requirements which is the most important challenge. <br>
 Requirement process issues in which there is a lack of update in requirements as soon as the change occurs, defining and managing of quality requirements. <br>
 Testing issues in which lack of well-defined testing process, cooperation between testers and analysts. <br>
 Change management issues in which there is a lack of update in requirements, tracking and reporting of changes. <br>
 Traceability issues in which there are large volume and complex requirements test cases. <br>
  Measurement issues in which there is difficulty in defining the metrics to measure the coverage of requirements. <br>
  So these finding helps practitioners to investigate alignment in their organization and researchers to make effective approaches to managing the alignment between requirements and verification process. <br>
  
[3]. This paper discusses the challenges faced in large-scale requirements and lessons learned while addressing these challenges in a large scale project.  The necessity of requirements is more when the developing system is more complex. Also high-quality requirements are important to plan, implement and test the product. In industries the problems faced are never documented so same mistakes repeat, in order to overcome this, authors collected the lessons learned while addressing the challenges.  In the selected project there are more than four thousand user requirements in which the challenges faced are:  <br>
  
   A Large number of customer requirements: the number of requirements given by customer are large so it is a challenge while analyzing.  <br>
   
   Formal interface to customer: Communication between analyst and customer is formal so that feedback takes time which is a challenge. <br>
   
   Management of customer expectation: As the system is large, early increments are shown to the customer which must satisfy customer which is a challenge. <br>
   
   Changing technology: technology changes had to be considered while development. <br>
   
   Distributed teams: Globalization in software development is a major challenge to coordinate between teams. <br>
   
   Traceability: Creating and maintaining traces of requirement is a complex task and takes more manual effort. <br>
   
   Scope change and creep: Scope change as the customer requires modification is a major challenge.    <br>
   
   Resource fluctuation: As the team may turnover so the knowledge needs to be easily transferred to new members which is a challenge. <br>
   
   Based on the above challenges, the lessons learned are: <br>
   
   i. Developing a well-structured feature set <br>
   ii. Obtain a good understanding of customer requirements. <br>
   iii. Use specification approach that scale. <br>
   iv. Separate requirement and design decisions. <br>
   v. Establish a traceability model. <br>
   vi. Define a traceability measurement process. <br>
   vii. Provide project status visualization. <br>
   viii. Establish effective documentation standard. <br>
   So as per author's experience, these lessons contribute to project success. <br>
	
## Answers

1. The number of requirements and interdependencies exceeds 1000 and managing interdependencies set is impractical, but suitable by forming requirements into some small bundle units [1] in large-scale requirements engineering. Selecting, managing, assigning, controlling, changing the requirements in large scale industry relates to large-scale requirements engineering. <br>

2. The challenges faced in large-scale requirements engineering are [2] [3]: <br>

    People issues: <br>
   
    i. More number of requirements from customer. <br>
    
    ii. Understanding of each other's work in a company. <br>
    
    iii. Communication and cooperation between organization units. <br>
    
    iv. Global distribution teams is also a challenge. <br>
    
    Traceability issues: <br>
    
    i. Complex requirements in a large volume. <br>
    
    ii. More number of test cases as per requirements. <br>
    
    Tools issues: <br>
    
    i. There are less user-friendly tools. <br>
    
    ii. lack of adequate tools. <br>
    
    Change management issues: <br>
    
    i. Whenever requirements are changed or new requirements have added these needs to be updated. <br>
    
    ii.technology changes need to be considered. <br>
    
    iii. Scope change is also a challenge. <br>
    
    
3. The order of magnitude of the number of requirements in large-scale requirements engineering are more than 1000 requirements, whereas in very large-scale requirements engineering it exceeds 10,000 requirements [1]. <br>

4. The selection of requirements or features for a subsequent releases of product by satisfying the stakeholders priorities and also satisfying the constraints like resources, budget, risk. In other words, satisfying technical and non-technical constraints and planning requirements for releases is said to be strategic release planning also called road-mapping. This type of release planning can be used for both bespoke products and market-driven products. Also considering the feedback and complexity from previous releases the strategic release plan can be replanned. As this is useful for selection of requirements which brings value and also satisfies the product strategies of the product. There are several models developed for this release planning most of them are useful for market-driven products and excluding some remaining also are useful for bespoke products. It is a complex and challenge process as it requires consideration and satisfaction of technical and non-technical factors. The models available for strategic release planning are mainly extension of the previous models so the suitable need to be selected as each model supports some factors [4]. <br>

[4]. Svahnberg, Mikael, et al. "A systematic review on strategic release planning models." Information and software technology 52.3 (2010): 237-248. <br>

## Articles

#### i. Ruhe “The art and science of release planning”, plus some more recent works on the EVOLVE methods. <br>

   Summary: <br>
     
   In this paper, to improve the release planning process the authors tried to integrate two approaches. In one approach communication, knowledge of human, and negotiation of conflicts are included which is the art of release planning. In another approach, a solution is generated by applying a formalized problem to a computational algorithm which is the science of release planning. <br>
   Basically, organizations do not use a sound model or methodology they just select requirements and assign in release planning in an informal way. So there is no exact information about how to perform release planning process effectively. <br>
   The agile methodology also takes this art approach to involve humanistic characteristic but it does not provide how to select features when multiple stakeholder exists. The optimization model authors presented here has the flexibility in a number of releases in which, a decision variable consists of set of features and the goal is to assign these set of features to some release options. <br>
   Coupling relation exists between features in which two features need to be released combined and a precedence relation in which a sequence of releases to be done. <br>
   Each release plan should satisfy the resources available. Stakeholders are prioritized by using an ordinal scale (1-9). Features are also prioritized by using ordinal scale (1-9) and urgency of feature whether to release first or later release. <br>
   Finally, an objective function is assumed in which average of stakeholders, feature prioritization is used to maximize function in every release plan and satisfy resource constraint which comes under modeling phase. <br>
   So based on these, a set of good alternatives can be achieved by solving the linear programming problem in which a good solution is considered only if it is 95% of object function value which is exploration phase. <br>
   A human expert evaluates the alternatives and selects the best one which is a consolidation phase. <br>
   As by integrating these two approaches, best features like a formalization of the problem, sophisticated method, human intuition, and evaluation of alternative solution leads to improvement in release planning process. <br>
   
 My view: As release planning is a tough decision this paper provides a combination of science and art method in which a linear problem and human intuition are involved so we can have a possibility of which features to be included in which release plan based on the goal. Also, this model satisfies the condition of resource availability and features are assigned to a release plan based on that. I agree with this method as I have experienced release planning through an assignment, in which this type of model can be good to use as this will have a goal for each release plan or milestone and we can assign the features or requirements to these milestones based on the goal. I agree with the authors as it provides an improvement in release planning as this method consist of different solutions so based on these experts can select which to use.  <br>
     
#### ii. R: Berntsson Svensson, B. Regnell (2015) “A case study evaluation of the guideline-supported QUPER model for elicitation of quality requirements”, 21st International Working Conference on Requirements Engineering: Foundation for Software Quality (REFSQ’15), Essen, Germany, pp. 230-246, 2015.  <br>
 
   Summary: 
   
   In this paper, the authors described how to use The Quality Performance Model (QUPER) with some practical guidelines which is a complete version of QUPER and also cost dependencies incorporated with quality in this model. Then authors evaluated the model after applying above two techniques in the company. The main intention behind developing QUPER model is there is a lack of appropriate model which defines the quality requirements for release planning process. The reason for incorporating the cost dependency is it will have a major impact on the estimated cost for other quality requirements and lead to a change in cost barriers of other quality requirements and also in selecting quality requirements for release planning process. The practical guidelines are as follows: <br>
   i.	Identify Candidate QR:  Competitors, market segments, relevant capabilities are needed to be considered while defining quality requirements. <br>
   ii.	Define scale and unit: To measure the level of quality a scale and measurement unit is to be defined. <br> 
   iii.	Identify reference levels: Reference levels of actual and competitor products need to be identified so that it provides an objective measure which can be related to quality requirements. <br>
   iv.	Elicit quality breakpoints: Market expectations are to be defined by using three types of breakpoints which are utility, saturation, differentiation breakpoints. <br>
   v.	Estimate cost barriers: Two cost barriers need to be estimated, one is for software changes and another one is for hardware components or software architecture. <br>
   vi.	Set candidate requirements: In this step make estimations and actual requirements need to be decided. A quality interval also needs to be specified by using good and stretch. <br>
   vii.	Identify cost dependencies: Identify cost dependencies between two or more quality requirements sets and list which are easy and cheaper to do if QR is improved and list which are difficult and expensive even if QR is improved. Based on this a human expert selects a QR which will be implemented with the best level of quality. <br>

   To evaluate the complete version of QUPER model, two evaluations are done based on interviews and questionnaires. The guidelines are provided to implement this QUPER model.  So by analyzing the results from the interviews and questionnaires the lessons learned are: <br>
•	Ease of use: QUPER model is easy to use and many practitioners explained that guidelines are very easy to apply and some practitioners think that all steps are not really necessary. <br>
•	The importance of the views: Roadmap view is considered most important as it visualizes both cost and benefit view. Benefit view is moderately important and cost view is least important as it takes a lot of work for estimating the costs. <br>
•	Applicability of cost dependency step: Many think that provided guidelines for cost dependency are easy to apply as it is similar to their previous approaches. <br>
•	Supporting release planning: All agree that QUPER improves the understanding of QR early. Roadmap view is considered most important in QUPER model by practitioners. Also, many of them believed that this model improves the communication between staff and customers and can know the position of the product in the competitive market. Some think that QUPER model cannot be used in the middle of development, it should be used from beginning to launch the product in the market. <br>
   So QUPER model is easy to apply with given guidelines but the cost dependency is not suitable for different domains apart from the evaluated domain. So future work includes evaluating the QUPER model in different domains. <br>
   
   My view: As quality requirements are not given that much priority when compared with functional requirements, there is less literature for quality requirements. So authors in this paper introduced a QUPER model which helps to understand quality requirements easily so that these can be included in the release planning process and also determines the position of the product in the market. Also, I agree with the authors that this model improves the process to understand the quality requirements. But the attributes included in this model, does not have any evidence in other domains so these need to be further researched to get an acceptance of this model. <br>

   
#### iii. Berntsson Svensson & Olsson “Introducing support for release planning of quality requirements an industrial evaluation of the QUPER model”  <br> 
   
  Summary:
    
  Requirements are prioritized by using cost and value dimensions. In this paper, the authors added another dimension Quality and developed a quality performance model (QUPER). Also implemented and reevaluated this model in the large-scale industry which is Sony Ericsson and mainly focused how QUPER model can be used in a company. <br>
  QUPER was developed in three steps: <br>
  i. Understanding different requirement decision scenarios which come under problem definition. <br>
  ii. By including three view models comes under the model definition. <br>
  iii. Evaluating the model with experts comes under model validation. <br>
  Goals for QUPER are: robust to uncertainty, easy to use, domain relevant. <br>
  In model definition there are three views which are benefits view, cost view, roadmap view. <br>
  Benefit view consists of three breakpoints: <br>
  Utility breakpoint in which there is a border between quality level useless and useful quality. <br>
  Differentiation breakpoint in which it represents the shift from useful to competitive quality. <br>
  Saturation breakpoint in which change in quality level from competitive to excessive quality. <br>
  Cost view represents the non-linear relation between cost and quality. <br>
  Roadmap view visualizes the quality of our product with the quality of the competitive product by combining benefit and cost view. <br>
  This QUPER model is used to improve the release planning process. So to evaluate the QUPER model the authors interviewed the experts from Sony Ericsson and also taken feedback from workshops. <br>
  The evaluation is started after three months of introducing the model in the company. The result indicated that the model is useful in release planning to prioritize the requirements based on quality dimension. The result shows that it is easy to use and improve the communication level among staff. <br>
  
  My view: This is the initial version paper for QUPER model, as said it includes quality requirements in release planning process which I agree with the authors that there is no certain literature regarding quality requirements in release planning through this model quality requirements importance can be invoked. This model requires further evaluation to get universal recognition so that it may be used in companies while doing release planning process.  <br>

 
#### iv. Regnell et al. “A market-driven requirements engineering process: results from an industrial process improvement programme”  <br>
   
   Summary:
    
  Requirement engineering process is different for packaged software and bespoke software. In this paper, the authors described an RE process called REPEAT. It is used at Telelogic company for requirement engineering process. <br>
  REPEAT consists of elicitation, validation activities and also a selection of requirements and release planning is done. Many actors involve in this process from requirement issuer team to testers. <br>
  It is a repeating process in which a requirement can be changed and added at any time. This process consists of five different phases: <br>
  I. Elicitation phase: In this phase, requirements are collected and classified. Issuer enters the requirements in a web form and submits to RQ database in which the issuer gives priority to the requirements. Human expert revises the requirements and estimates the cost and impact of the requirement. <br>
  Then requirement enters into the classified state. <br>
  II. Selection phase: In this phase, a requirements document is prepared which consists of selected list, the specification of each requirement and not selected list. Then this document is validated. <br>
  III. Change management, construction, verification and conclusion: After the selection phase, the REPEAT process enters to change management and a new REPEAT process is initiated. <br>
  Then construction phase starts in an iterative manner and verification is done based on requirement document. Then it reaches to conclusion phase in which a review is done and any lessons learned are documented. <br>
  The REPEAT process improvised the release precision in Telelogic company as it consists of effort estimation, prioritization of user requirements, detailed requirement specification, and change management through every phase. <br>
  However, challenges are faced in this process such as connecting fragments and overload control. <br>
  So to overcome these challenges REPEAT-2 is introduced in which it consists of two techniques: Hierarchical use-case modeling which is used to connect requirement fragments and Cost value use case prioritization which is used to sort requirements in an efficient way and avoid congestion. <br>
  
  My view: This paper introduces a REPEAT process in which the requirements are managed from initial to the release of a product. This method is useful when coming to tracing and tracking of requirements, and changing the requirements. So the phases help the companies to have an organized way of handling the requirements. Also, there is a lack of evidence for the next version of the model REPEAT-2 so there is a need of industrial evaluation. Whether this model is easy to implement and the challenges are easily overcome by using REPEAT-2 or not. <br>
    
# Seminar 1

## Questions

1. Read up on GAP / CVA / IVA Analysis!

2. What tools are available for Continuous Integration?

3. What is technical product management?

4. What is road mapping? How can you do it large scale?

## Answers

1. GAP Analysis: GAP analysis is a technique mainly used in business to know which further steps to be taken to gain future state from the present state. In this analysis it consists of three factors in which the first one is what is done at present, second is what is to be done and the third is what is the gap need to be filled between above two steps. If there is a positive gap that means the present situation is in favor, and if the gap is negative the situation needs to be analyzed and necessary changes need to be done [1]. <br>

   CVA Analysis: CVA analysis is a technique which is about the customer value regarding the product and market competitor’s product, so by this we can know the changes need to be done in our product to meet the satisfaction of the customer. The CVA analysis is of knowing how much value customers are giving to the product, measuring the competitor’s product and our product performance and analyzing the future to survive in the market. So by this, we can predict the product demand in the future. <br>

   IVA Analysis- IVA analysis is used to know the product is in line with the product strategies so that necessary improvements can be made. In this analysis the factors like time, money, risk and knowledge are considered [1]. By these analyzes the product and market of the product can be improved.  <br>

2. There are many tools available for continuous integration. Some of them are listed below: <br>
	i. Jenkins- Jenkins is a continuous integration and continuous delivery tool, It is an automation server and it supports many plugins and different operating systems. Also, the work done in one operating system can be imported to another operating system. <br>
    Link to this tool is -> https://jenkins-ci.org/  <br>
	ii.Buildbot - Buildbot is also an automation tool in which the fundamental design is not fixed so that it supports more complex cases than other tools like Jenkins. <br>
        Link -> http://buildbot.net/                 
        <br>
	iii. Travis CI- Travis CI is a tool which will help to test the builds created and also have a feature to import from other repositories like GitHub. <br>
    Link to this tool ->https://travis-ci.org/     <br>
	iv. Strider- Strider is also a continuous integration tool in which it supports many plugins and can easily customize such as own HTTP routes and modification of interfaces. <br>
    Link to this tool-> https://github.com/Strider-CD/strider     <br> 
	v. Go- Go tool is used for automation and its main feature is we can easily identify or configure the dependencies for deployment. Also, the stream map view is for to know the commit and how it is deployed so helpful for tracking, comparison of builds and can deploy previous versions also. <br>
    Link to this tool ->https://www.go.cd  <br>
	Vi. Integrity -Integrity tool is an automation server in which it only supports GitHub repositories. SO there may be less scope to this tool but the GitHub is a popular one. It tests the builds and notifies the members about the results as it very user-friendly interface all members can easily view the notifications. It has command line Interface and the number of failures and number of tests is visible to the users. As there are many other tools which more rich GUI it may be no that much used by major projects.  <br>
    Link to this tool->http://integrity.github.io/       <br>
	As these are open source tools. There are many commercial tools which can provide more features.   <br>

   I have tried one of the tool to experience the continuous integration, the tool i selected is Travis CI as it have a option to integrate with GitHub. What i did for this process is i created a repository in GitHub and created a php file which performs an addition operation of 1+1. At begin of the test it is created that 1+1 is 1 so that the tool needs to build this code and say fail in build. So i made a change in one of the file and pushed into Git. Then the travis tool automatically build the new change and it says the build is failed with the information like time taken for build. <br>

   Then i changed the code file with 1+1 equals two and then pushed into Git, then travis tool automatically builds the new change version and it says passed as the given code is correct. <br>

  The file builds can be seen in following link : https://drive.google.com/file/d/0Bz_7Gx1hn6L9T1QtdGpEdjd1VjQ/view?usp=sharing  <br>

   Through this experience, i felt that the continuous integration tools are really helpful as when a change is pushed into a repository it automatically tests the code and building it. If there is any error presents the tool automatically sends an email that the build is failed so that developers can easily develop a quality code as working of code is knowing immediately. This tool working is great as it recognizing the change in repository and building it. It showing here it getting failed so the bugs can be easily rectified. These tools are really handy for large companies to track, as until last stage if failure of integration happens it is a chaos so these type of tools helps to fix that.       <br>

3. Technical product management is managing the product and involving in technical activities by who knows the technical information. So in the case of requirements, the technical understanding of requirements is to be considered. Also, the market requirements are needed to be gathered and analyzed. The technical product manager needs to have interaction with the development and implementation teams and have a technical background to discuss. So that discussion with team members will be easy as the manager knows the technical information. So the manager can analyzed the present product situation with the competitive market and analyze the technical details, maintain the roadmap of product based on the analysis of the market situation, monitoring of development of the product.  <br>
	
4. Roadmapping is a process in which a document is prepared which provides the list of releases of a product over a given time block for future [2]. In large scale, the roadmapping need to be done through identifying the future trends and requirements can be selected by knowing what are present capabilities and which requirements can be put forward for the future timeline in the roadmap of that product based on the analysis of the market situation. So by analysis, the goals can be designed and based on the goals the product roadmap can be planned. <br>
The roadmap process consists of four phases [2], they are: initiation, preparation, finalization and follow-up phases.<br>
The initiation phase consists of [2] forming a team for roadmapping, then knowing the strategies and pre-conditions for the roadmapping and setting a context.<br>
The preparation phase consists of [2] themes priortizing and selecting and then determining a schedule and creating a roadmap.<br>
The finalization phases consists of [2] validating the roadmap created in the above phase and demontrating this roadmap to the internal and external of the project teams.<br>
Then the final phase is follow-up phase [2] in which the feedback can be collected and any changes or updates can be done to the roadmap.<br>

In this way roadmap can be prepared for large-scale companies.<br>

Reference: <br>

[1]. Gorschek & Davis “Requirements Engineering. In search of dependent variables” Read up on GAP / CVA / IVA Analysis! <br>

[2]. Regnell, Björn, and Sjaak Brinkkemper. "Market-driven requirements engineering for software products." Engineering and managing software requirements. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2005. 287-308. <br>

## Summary

#### i. Gorschek, Tony, and Claes Wohlin. "Requirements abstraction model." Requirements Engineering 11.1 (2006): 79-101. <br>


Requirements vary in their level of abstraction in software organizations. Some requirements are more detailed and some requirements are more in abstract form. So the authors of this paper recognized the need for a model to place the requirements in the level it suits and each requirement have a connection with the project goal. Also, it is a challenge to product managers as requirements will arrive in a continuous manner. So to mitigate this challenge authors proposed a model which is 'Requirements Abstraction Model (RAM)'. Through this model the requirements can be compared with other requirements as all are placed in the levels and each requirement has product level, function level, feature and component levels so the abstraction of requirements is breakdown into feature or component level requirements to get easily understood to the developers. The motivation to develop this model is as said there is no suitable model for continuous requirements in literature and there is an industrial need for it. RAM model has several stages before it got into version 1.0. As there is static and dynamic validation done to this model to measure the usefulness of this model. <br>
    The basic steps in this model are specify, place and abstraction. That is in specifying the elicitation of requirements is done and these are the raw or original requirements elicited. The place is second action step in which the requirements are placed in the suitable level based on the requirement. There are four levels in RAM they are a product, feature, function, component levels. The product level consists of goals of the product and these are compared with product strategy, Feature level consists of what features the product can support, functional requirements are the requirements which tell about what the user can be able to do in the given system or product, component level is the last level in which each function have a detailed explanation and how the function to be performed. Then the abstraction step in which the requirements are created to break down the requirements if it is in abstract state or create requirements to make it abstract so it can be compared easily. There are two rules in this one is no requirement should not be there without having a connection with product level and all requirements have to broke down into the functional level. To make it easy the authors provided a manual like thing so it guides to use this model when should we place a requirement is explained clearly in this guide. To have a traceability and track, there are additional attributes specified they are requirement source, requirement owner, requirements manager, relation/ dependency, state, reject reason, due date, version, date of creation, last changed these are attributes in which some are mandatory and some are optional. <br>
    There are requirements states in this RAM model, they have two divisions one is pre-project and project. In pre-project the requirements are handled in a continuous way and in the project the subset of selected requirements is handled. The states in pre-project are a draft requirement, rejected requirement and incompletely specified requirement. In the project the refined requirement state is available from this state, the requirement is handled to design stage. So the states are changes based on the changes like updating the scope, priority etc.  As this model is developed to be incorporated with organizations but all organizations are not same so this model can be customized based on the type of organization. The customization included changing the levels required in abstractions as per need. Also, this model is said to be example-driven so the terminology between organizations vary so these can be changes as per their need and these are further explained in this paper.<br>
To validate this model, two validations are done one is static and other is dynamic validation. The static validation is mainly based on reviews and walkthroughs, static validation one involved manager mainly whereas static validation two involved developers and testers mainly. Interviews are conducted mainly with these practitioners and in validation one size and complexity are mainly focused. Practitioners felt that larger model leads to less use of this model so it is decided to have a model which is good enough. Also the benefit of the model is having customized levels so the organization can use this model based on their need, also, the risk involved with this model is if the product strategies are not defined there will be no use of this model. The static validation two is mainly on whether the requirements given to developers and testers are easy to implement and testable or not. The result came that all functional or component level requirements are not always in a testable ready state. Then a dynamic validation is done on this model as there is a time constraint in the company so a small project with limited time is used for a run live project on this model. The validation is done mainly on abstraction levels, whether the requirements can be used directly for intended purposes and usability of the model. The practitioner’s provided feedback in a positive way by validating it and the action steps are easily done without much effort and the main issue is the addition of new requirements when working up the requirements, so comparing the created requirement with original requirement whether the requirements is explaining the original requirement or not. The workup requirements are considered benefit by the practitioners as it details the requirements to work on with it in development. Also, the usability of the model is said to be good enough by the product manager. As said this model is suitable enough for the organization by tailoring the model with their needs and it helps them to have a level of requirements during prioritization so that abstract level requirement is not compared with the functional level requirement. Also, this model helps the developers to easily work on the product and managers to easily manage the requirements. The further research of this model is validating through dynamic way for more time and having a continuous management from pre-project to post project.                                                                                                                    
<br>
My view: RAM model is very necessary as it divides the requirements into different levels so requirements with abstract level cannot be compared with another level. I agree with the author regarding this model is important as there is no model in this type and it also evaluated in the industry as the result came in a good way. As it helps in prioritizing, packaging of requirements also helps for implementation team as all requirements are in an organized way. As there is also a further work proposed by the authors so improving model further extends the support and usage of the model.  <br>

#### ii. Khurum & Gorschek “A method for early requirements triage and selection utilizing product strategies” <br>

This paper basically explains the selection of requirements from strategic and technical manager combined perspective. A method named MERTS is presented in which it guides to create the product strategies form technical and strategic perspective and from these product strategies, the manager can select the right requirements. This method was developed due to lack of methods and companies have limited time so this method can be used to triage, select the requirements.  <br>
The method usefulness was validated through conducting several practitioner interviews. At first, a literature study was done, based on this an initial model with a set of five questions are formed and then an industry input is taken through interviews and based on these a final version of the model is created as the interviews resulted that the problems found through literature study are correct. There are three parts in the MERTS in which the first part needs to specify the three questions such as where to go, how to get there and what to do. As these questions target the product about the future requirements can be postponed and needed requirement are planned for release. Then weights need to be assigned for each answer for above questions, so a total of 300 will be calculated if each answer is given with maximum value 100.  By comparing the requirements after assigning the weights, a threshold can be obtained. So the selection of requirements is done based on the value which is above the threshold.  <br>
The second part is a selection of requirements to release in which a roadmap is set so to vary the requirements for present and future. This part answers the question when to get there so for this two steps need to be done one is specifying the product technology roadmap and another step is  the estimation of resources, the effort required and prioritization is done to plan the release. The third part is to document the reasons for a decision so if it became the success it can be repeated through following the documentation. By validating it through the practitioners who are also interviewed at beginning found that method is easy to implement and an abstraction of requirements knowledge is suitable and helpful for both strategic and technical product managers. But the limitation is that the method was only validated with a limited number of practitioners so there is a threat of validity so it is limited in scope. <br>

My view: This paper presents a method which is needful for organizations as the strategic and technical product managers can easily discuss the requirements and their selection. But there is need of research to be done to validate it with more number of practitioners. I agree with what is written as the abstraction of requirements make the selection and prioritization of requirements easy and this method gives an easy task to do which leads to the selection of requirements.  <br>


#### iii. Gorschek & Davis “Requirements Engineering. In search of dependent variables”   <br>

This paper describes the framework of dependent variables while accessing the requirements engineering. There are five levels of in which the dependent variables vary. They are requirements phase, project, product, company, society. The dependent variables in requirement phase are an effort for requirement analysis, development effort, and quality of requirement specification. The dependent variable in project level are cost and time of the project and estimated budget, schedule to the actual budget and schedule so meeting it represents the success. Sometimes the requirement change using dependent variables may call success but can be a failure in project level. <br>
Some requirements change is said to be requirements creep who do not like the overload of requirements, but these are considered by some as good for the product as these requirements change may contain quality. The dependent variables in the third level define the success of product they are requirement selection in which the selected requirements consist less number of errors and increase efficiency and degree of impact in which the product increases the revenue and decrease the cost of development. The dependent variables in the fourth level define success are portfolio management in which products complement with other and resources are utilized in an optimized way, strategic alignment means the product aligns with the strategies of corporate or organization, and revenue improvement, profit and return on investment variables are considered for the success of the company. The dependent variables in the fifth level are positive and negative externalities in which the product developed should not harm the environment and should not risk any life so it may consider the safety of society if it fails it said to be failure product. So this paper delivers the new knowledge in the form of different levels impact of requirements engineering is assessed, and success of a product can be considered from the given levels so that success at re-specification may be a failure at the product level. The goals should be present goals and future goals which should align with the product requirement in future. A roadmap should be considered to know the present requirements and push the limit of the requirement which are necessary for future. <br>

My view: This paper presents the importance of requirements engineering and their impact on several quality levels. I agree with authors of the paper as their work represents the exact information about how requirements effects the project, product, company, and society. So while selecting a requirement one should consider that these are affected by them so selection should be considered from present trends to future trends and changes. <br>

#### iv.R. Berntsson Svensson, T. Gorschek, B. Regnell, R. Torkar, A.Shahrokni, R. Feldt (2012) “Quality Requirements in Industrial Practice – an extended interview study at eleven companies”, IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, vol.38(4), pp. 923-935  <br>

This paper focuses on quality requirements as the developing through only functional requirements may lead to customer dissatisfaction and product failure. So one has to consider quality requirements. As many studies are done based on the quality requirements but do not consider the challenges, this paper concentrates on cost estimation challenges in QR and compare two type of companies in the analysis they are business to business(B2B) companies and business to consumer(B2C) companies. <br>
So a set of research questions is formed based on the experiences of authors and conducted interviews in eleven companies. The most important QR in B2C are usability and in B2B are safety. So basically the investigated questions are most important interdependencies the answer is REQUIRES that is one requirement requires another requirement to function but not vice versa. But it varies between B2B and B2C companies so B2C company views CVALUE as important which one requirements changes the other requirement value for the customer. Another research question is how industries carry the elicitation process of interdependencies and the result is that most of the companies do not consider these as these are complex tasks to perform and some companies answered these are assumed and not evaluated. The cost estimation in QR was performed by not having distinct estimated between functional and QR as these are estimated through expert opinion mostly.  <br>
The result shows that B2B group has more inaccurate estimates than B2C group. Most of the QR are dismissed in some stages of development according to research 41% of QR are dismissed in B2B and 31% are dismissed in B2C. In B2C, these are dismissed due to inaccurate estimated and in B2B mostly the QR which are not visible to customers are dismissed and low priority than FR. Consequences for dismissing the QR are done by reconsidering the quality requirements if they are insisted by customer and discuss with developers whether to perform them or not while other project leaders say they can deliver the product fast if they do not consider QR’s. the main things to do is to have a different technique to estimate the quality requirements than same technique which used for FR.  <br>
Then research is done on the specification of QR, results show that not all are quantifiable so some QR are quantified and other such as usability related QR are not quantified. So finally the QR are not considered during the planning stage so there lies the problem to solve the QR also to be elicitate during the early phases only. <br>
My view: This paper discusses the importance of quality requirements for the success of software and how industries considering them. The results show that many of the companies do not elicit the QR during initial stages so there comes the problem. I agree with what the paper says as the most problems of products are due to not considering Quality requirements and only considering the functional requirements, so to be successful and deliver a quality of product it is a good practice to elicit the quality requirements from initial stages itself. <br>


#### v. J. Karlsson, K. Ryan, “A cost-value approach for prioritizing requirements”, IEEE Software, 1997. <br>

Software application development goal is to meet the needs of the stakeholders and developing all requirements from the customer is not possible so a subset of requirements needs to be selected which meets the needs of the customer. In this paper, an analytical tool is developed for prioritizing the requirements using a cost value approach. It is successfully applied in two companies. Process for prioritizing should be simple to use and should be accurate, trustworthy.  <br>
Also, should satisfy the stakeholder satisfaction. This analytical tool considers three factors: quality, time, and cost.  The authors investigated the candidate requirements by comparing them with relative cost and time.  The cost-value approach consists of five steps to prioritize the requirements. They are the candidate requirements are carefully observed by requirement engineering to decrease the redundant requirements. Customers and users apply this method to know the value of their requirements through comparison. Experienced software engineers use this method to estimate cost required by a requirement. <br>
A software engineer estimates value and cost and plot a relation between cost and value for a requirement. The stakeholder discusses the requirements through using the plot given by software engineers. So finally, the discussion result leads to the selection of requirements for development and also for the release planning process. As this method is easy to perform the practitioners really felt useful. But this method is useful for small scale requirements and also consists of many issues to be solved to use in present industries. <br>


My view: this paper discusses the way to prioritize the requirements by analyzing them through cost and value. But I do not think it will be helpful in the present situation as the scale of requirement using this method is very low and it did not consider interdependencies between the requirements. As present requirements for industries vary from medium scale to large scale requirements such as requirements exceeds 1000 so it will not be helpful. <br>



## Seminar 2

# Questions
1. Read up on the Boston Matrix.
2. How do you connect your requirements to your architecture?
3. Can you connect all requirements directly? What do you do if you cannot?

# Answers

1. Boston Matrix:  Boston matrix is a tool used for product portfolio, management of product and strategic.  The matrix compares the product market share and market growth. A market share represents the revenue of the product in the market. The market growth represents the growth of the product in the market. Sometimes a product has more share but less growth and vice versa in that case what can be done can be given by this matrix and many companies follow this to take a decision. It consists of four categories they are: Dogs, Cash cows, Question marks (problem children), Stars. <br>
      +	Dogs describes the product which have low market growth and low market share. These products are basically requiring more amount and the profit is less. <br>
      +	Cash cows are about the product which are having high market share and low market growth. These products produce more amount of money and there are fewer chances to increase the market. So the companies need to utilize this opportunity and if there is possibility market growth also need to be increased. <br>
      +	Question marks (problem children) is the products with high market growth and low market share in which the decision need to be taken carefully whether to invest into it or not so that the product may have a chance to become star or cash cows. Also, there is a chance to become dogs so the decision is the important criteria here. <br>
      +	Stars is the product with high market growth and high market share as these products are at the high range and this need to maintained and after some years it may become cash cow or dogs where the more need of investment is unnecessary. <br>
The main motive of above categories is that companies can decide whether to invest, maintain or drop the product [REF 1]. <br>

2. Architecture provides a model which can be used to demonstrate to customers and developers regarding the product and it improves the common communication. The requirements act as the design goals, so based on the goals the design of architecture is done. The goal consists of both functional and non-functional requirements. Designing architecture from requirements can be done through different methods. Pattern based architecture design consists of two levels, they are architecture styles and design patterns. Multiple view model encourages to have a different view in a system for different aspects. Evaluation and transformation based design in which first priority is for functional requirements and then non-functional requirements are considered in an iterative manner [REF 2]. Also, there are other techniques used as per the suitability for requirements and architecture. <br>

3. Not all requirements are connected directly to architecture as all are not at the level of architecture. So the requirements which are not at architecture level are not considered, and the requirements which are significant at architecture level are considered [REF 3]. So the requirements which are not detailed enough or does not contain any information are needed to be optimized so that these can be used for connecting to architecture. <br>

## Reference:

[REF1] “Oxford Learning Lab - Marketing Essentials - Free Course: Marketing Essentials.” [Online]. Available: http://www.oxlearn.com/clip_Boston-Matrix_11_25_387#topo. [Accessed: 14-Dec-2015]. <br>

[REF 2] Liao, Lin. "From Requirements to Architecture: The State of the Art in Software Architecture Design." Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Washington (2002): 1-13. <br>

[REF 3] De Boer, Remco C., and Hans Van Vliet. "On the similarity between requirements and architecture." Journal of Systems and Software 82.3 (2009): 544-550. <br>



# Summary

#### i. v.d. Weerd & Brinkkemper “Towards a reference framework for software product management.” <br>

Software product management is about managing portfolio, roadmapping, release planning and requirements management for a software product. In this paper, a reference framework for software product management is presented. It also helps to identify key terms and research questions, education to managers. The authors first conducted a literature review on both software product and non-software products. Then created a draft of reference framework and it is validated by conducting a case-study and input from practitioners of product managers. Then the reference framework is finalized. <br>
The reference framework base structure is based upon artifacts and stakeholders.  In artefacts, it consists of different hierarchy levels in which the first one is portfolio management of products, second one is to have a roadmap of products in a given time block, then the third one is release planning that features to be released in which release, and final one is the requirements management in which each requirement is analysed. In stakeholders the internal and external stakeholders need to be identified as these are the providers to requirements. In reference framework, the portfolio management is about managing the products, introducing new changes, decisions regarding lifecycle of product, trend decisions.  <br>
In roadmapping, the product is planned for long-term and also planning of technological resources, elements and their relationship with the product. The input to roadmapping is given from product lines of portfolio management. The requirements management is about analyzing the requirements, removing any redundancy in the requirements and linking the requirements based on their functionality then these are organized according to the product. In release planning, the requirements are prioritized based on a method then the next release product requirements are selected. Then the selected requirements are documented, and these are validated by stakeholders. Then after validation, the process of development will start. So finally, the authors took an initiation to provide a reference framework for software product management and provided a body of knowledge on software product management.  <br>

My view: The reference framework for software product management helps to identify the main key concepts in software product management also the way to process in industries can be learned through this model. I agree with the authors as this model is an initiation step in software product management and helps the product to sustain in the market through various analysis. But there is a need of improvement as the model may need to support large-scale to very large-scale industries. <br>

#### ii. Regnell, Björn, and Sjaak Brinkkemper. "Market-driven requirements engineering for software products." Engineering and managing software requirements. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2005. 287-308.  <br>

In this paper the market-driven requirements engineering overview is given and the challenges associated with the market-driven requirements. Authors stated that software products have two dimensions: one is a degree of customization and another one is hardware and software content. The degree of customization is generic products, customizable products, and customer-specific products. In hardware and software content consists of three classes, one is pure hardware in which products are fixed to particular hardware architecture, embedded system are the products which consist of hardware and their embedded software, pure software is the products independent of hardware. In some cases, the MDRE and customer specific development do not consist that much difference as the software developed for mass market can be customized and sell to the specific customer. <br>

In MDRE, the main goal is to deliver a right product at a right time and have to deal with competitors, and the success of a product is said to be based on the sales, reviews. The software product is to be developed based on the demand of the customer and also to foresee the future of the product and competition. So there is more of evolution in MDRE products than in bespoke products. The requirements are elicitate by creating new requirements i.e. innovating the requirements and analyzing the market demand for the product. The organizations which are developing products in MDRE context mainly consider the release planning, cost estimation, and prioritization. The product validation in MDRE can be done at the last stage of development. <br>

Challenges in MDRE are stated as follows by conducting a survey at five different companies. <br>
+ Balancing market pull and technology push: it is a challenge that balancing technology-based requirements and market needed requirements. <br>
+ Chasm between marketing and development: The communication between the market analysts and developers need to be good to have a quality product. <br>
+ Organizational instability and market turbulence: A documentation need to be maintained to mitigate the risks of staff turnover so that when new employees arrive they can know what previous ones are worked on. <br>
+ Simple tools for basic needs: There should be simple tools for basic activities as the challenge is to find solutions to the problems that are not too complex. <br>
+ Requirements dependencies: The dependencies between requirements is a major challenge as it makes the release planning difficult. <br>
+ Cost-value estimation and release planning: Cost estimation is a major challenge if not done properly, as it is important for release planning. <br>
+ Overloaded requirements management: Requirements overloading is a challenge, as maintaining the requirements flow is difficult. <br>
MDRE process is a way of synchronizing the development activity with a continuous flow of requirements. The main thing in MDRE process is roadmapping and release planning of the product. Also, the most important factors are well-known development process and well-known market with customer demand. Process quality is a decision which decides whether the product will be successful or not. There are two types of requirements alpha and beta requirements. In alpha type requirements, the requirements add value to the product and these are described as golden grains whereas coming to beta requirements these are low quality and these requirements must be rejected. The major challenge is to find the type of requirements. These are linked to elicitation subprocess, if it is done in a better way then there are number of alpha requirements in the list so it impacts the success of the product. <br>
The MDRE process capacity is also to be considered as there should be a threshold to the flow of requirements otherwise, the throughput will decrease, the time to deliver the product increase and quality also decreases. One way to stop the overloading is to have a screening before estimating the effort for the requirement, so while screening if the requirements are not that much necessary it will be rejected.
There are two types of modes to handle the requirements, one is continuous mode and another one is release mode. In Continuous mode, the requirements are continuously retrieved and register by the product manager and in release mode, the approved requirements are developed and verified before the release. <br>
The requirements are handled in two ways if the industry is small-scale then a spreadsheet is used and if the industry is large-scale then a repository need to be created by using a tool so it should be possible to track and trace the requirements easily.
The elicitation of requirements needs to be done by taking the responses from customers, conducting workshops it will be useful in large-scale industries, and by having customer working groups which consists of domain knowledgeable customers who can prepare a requirement specification document and also can prioritize the requirements. <br>
Roadmap document consists of features that are to be incorporated in the product for coming years. The software industries come under product technology roadmap and these roadmaps are created by considering the sales of the product, market share, strengths and weakness, the needs of the customer, the market trend. So based on them, product roadmap is considered in MDRE process. From the roadmap document each release plan is planned and set of the requirement are taken from it and develop and make a working deliverable. <br>

My view: In this chapter the author explained the process of MDRE in software products, as there are challenges in MDRE process and these challenges need to be taken care by the managers. As there are techniques and methods provided by authors but there is a need of more methods and techniques in MDRE, as the requirements will arrive in continuous flow these are to handle and time should be used in an optimized way. Also in MDRE process, the requirements flow is not same between two companies so they need to adjust and select the methods and techniques suitable to their situation. The authors described MDRE process and its complexity in a good manner and it is easy to understand. <br>

#### iii. D. Leffingwell “Scaled Agile Framework” Link: http://v3.scaledagileframework.com/   <br>

Scaled agile framework provides solutions to the barriers like social, organizational and other in agile organizations. The scale agile framework by Leffingwell consists of three layers they are portfolio, program and team. The portfolio layer consists of the release of epics in time spans, regarding these epics the architecture also evolves as per the epic, the portfolio product management coordinates with content, integration and releasing. The budget is also controlled for every agile release train in which the epics and architecture are present. It also consists of portfolio backlog in which the present and future epics are situated. Also, this layer consists of portfolio metrics in which it measures the lean portfolio metrics, Kanban metrics, a measure of epics like measuring the progress of epics in which burndown and burnup charts can be used to show the progress. By using these metrics, the management can manage the tasks in portfolio layer. Agile release train is like a set of teams define, build and test the systems generally the number of individuals involved in this train is 50 to 125 individuals. overall this layer concentrates on the technology oversight, business needs are identified and these are prioritized using the financial and vision of the company in the mind. The management also provides a certain feedback based on their progress to the program and team layers. <br>

The social dimension of scaling problem is addressed by the program layer. The program layer consists of a chain of people from technical persons like developers, architects, UX designers and customers, suppliers, devops, RTE, release management to coordinate mutually and have a better solution to the needs of the business. Based on the vision of the project, the epics are road mapped so that the customer can have a detailed view of the future of the product. In this layer, only the features of the products or release plan are determined and these are implemented by the technical staff and have a release of workable products based on release on demand components and demos to these products. Each agile release train goes through this type of implementation to have a product. So in this way, the scale agile framework for program layer gives the solution in order to meet the business needs by mitigating the barriers. <br>

Organization dimension of scaling problem is addressed by the team layer. The team layer consists of mutual understanding and having a shared mental model between team members. Also, the teams are autonomous, self-managing and cross-functional teams. So that traditional teams like dividing between roles are not there so a better understanding and better efficiency of work can be seen. Also providing a team to get the value from the features developed and turn into business based on these features. The team consists of the product owner, scrum master, agile teams. There is also continuous integration is done to check the build and integrate continuously so that quality is checked through the development. As these agile teams develop the product in iterations so each epic is fitted into suitable and iterations and develop them then these are tested. Also, there is a concept of refactor in which developed code can be reused. <br>


#### iv. Bjarnason, Elizabeth, Krzysztof Wnuk, and Björn Regnell. "Are you biting off more than you can chew? A case study on causes and effects of overscoping in large-scale software engineering." Information and Software Technology 54.10 (2012): 1107-1124. <br>

The requirements which are developed on the particular release is called scope of the release and the requirements which are developed on the whole is said to be the scope of the project. As there is a chance of over-scoping in large scale industries, in this paper authors investigated the causes and effects of over-scoping a project and also agile practices affect this type of situation. The authors conducted a case study in a company which consists of very large scale requirements and it consists of several units like requirement unit, software unit, product unit, and usability design unit. These are responsible from collecting the requirements and managing the scope to developing these requirements and interfaces to these. The studied company used a stage gate model which consists of milestones to manage the project. There are total seven milestones, and for each milestone, the scope is updated. The scoping is done mainly in milestone 2 and all the requirements are provided in a natural language and domain-specific. The studied company introduced agile at the time authors conducting a case study. So the agile RE practices that are considered in the company are: <br>
i.one continuous scope and release-planning flow in which the scope is continuously managed with respective to product backlog and scope which is critical is given to a specific product release and which are not that critical are assigned to other releases. <br>
ii. Cross-functional development teams are the teams which consists of members with all working field like analysts, developers, testers. The team can decide on the changes in scope and value assigned to the feature. <br>
iii. Gradual and iterative dealing of requirements, in this the requirements are defined at a high level first and then a detailed level of requirements is planned iterative manner. <br>
iv. Integrated requirements engineering in which the RE tasks are integrated with other tasks in the project. <br>
v. User stories and acceptance criteria in which the user stories are the requirements which need to be developed and acceptance criteria is the developed requirements which are to be tested and if it passes the test cases then it is accepted. <br>
As all these practices are not implemented and some are in the stage of being implemented, the authors actually investigated what causes are impacted by using the agile practices and how these practices affect the overscoping situation. <br>
There are three phases in the case study in the first one the author assumed causes and assumed hypothesis and these are used for interviewing in the second phase. In the third phase, the results from the second phase are validated by presenting these interview results to six practitioners. <br>
Through the conducted case study the authors find the causes for over scoping are: <br>
+ continuous requirements inflow from multiple channels <br>
+ no overview of software resource availability <br>
+ low development team involvement in early phases <br>
+ requirements are not agreed with development team  <br>
+ unclear vision of overall goal <br>
+ detailed requirements specification produced upfront <br>
+ weak process adherence <br>
+ scope and deadline dictated by project management <br>
Due to the over scoping, there are many effects which vary from serious to normal which can cost more for the project. <br>
The identified effects through the case study are: <br>
+ many changes after project scope is set <br>
+ quality issues <br>
+ delays <br>
+ customer expectations are always not met <br>
+ communication gap <br>
+ challenge to keep SRS update <br>
+ overtime working <br>
+ change in product plan or cancelation <br>
+ low priority for administrative tasks <br>

As the agile practices mentioned above, those can be implemented to reduce the causes of overscoping. Through the practice i. critical features are not delayed and can retrieve feedback early on the developed features. Also, there is a challenge in implementing this practice which is scheduling and cost estimation. By the second practice the communication between team members improved as in team all types of members are available so this way the root cause for overscoping can be stopped. Through the third practice, the detail requirements reduce the changes in requirements and also reduce the communication gaps as every requirement have a detailed specification.  <br>
Finally, the authors stated that the overscoping situation may cause more overscoping of the project, even though implementing agile practices will not eradicate the causes of overscoping and also these practices also have challenges. So overscoping is still a challenge even though by introducing agile development process.  <br>  

My view: The authors find out the causes and effects of overscoping, so the organizations can use these causes and have a checklist with their company so that the given causes are not present in their company. As said by the authors the overscoping cannot be eradicated even by following the agile practices so there needs to be some management for scope who can manage the scope for a release plan. The authors did a better study but the assumed causes only considered in this case and some other causes but there should be a study conducted so that causes of overscoping in every domain can be known. <br>


#### v. Wnuk, Krzysztof, et al. "Exploring factors affecting decision outcome and lead time in large‐scale requirements engineering." Journal of Software: Evolution and Process 27.9 (2015): 647-673. <br>

The decision making is an important process while selecting features whether to be included or rejected. To make this decision, several characteristic’s need to be considered. In this paper, the authors conducted a two-stage case study in a company which follows stage gate model to manage the requirements. There are seven milestones in which four of them are before the implementation stage and later three are during and after implementation stage.  <br>
The first two authors in this paper investigated the log of the decisions which made by the company in 2008. These are analyzed and important are retrieved by the authors and these are verified by the other author and one practitioner from the company. The main goal of this paper is to find the characteristics which impact on decision lead time. Here the lead time means the time between the issue is reported and the decision was made whether to accept or reject the reported issue. Also the relationship between the decision outcome and characteristics and also the relationship between the decision outcome and decision lead time. At first, these characteristics are found through the company's log and made a statistical analysis on it and then a survey is conducted with other practitioners who are not from large-scale industry. Then the survey results are compared with the case study results and generalized the final result. The results of the paper are as follows. The characteristics which impacts the decision lead time are Number of products, Release number, and type of customer. As the number of products is more it takes more decision lead time. So the decision can be made quickly if the complexity of the issues can be reduced by breaking down into smaller issues.  Then release number product line attribute change and lead time relationship is varying. <br>
As per this paper study, this company has more functionalities in the earlier release so more time is taken for early release than later releases. Also, another finding is that there will be no relationship between these two as the time to make a decision is same for all releases. Then the relationship between the type of customer and their influence on lead-time for decision is that for small-sized companies there is a chance of giving importance for customer types but in large scale and MDRE process, there is not much importance to the customer. The decision outcome and a number of products affect relationship are that majority of the decisions will get rejected and for large scale industries, the number of projects does not have any influence on decision outcome. <br>
Also, this is a case study only one company data log is not sufficient to generalize the results as the result in this paper contradicts. Then the release number and decision outcome also have the same problem that the generalized result is not provided as the survey respondents are mainly from bespoke projects whereas the studied company is market driven so the relationship between release number and decision outcome will not be same and cannot be concluded with an answer. Then the type of customer and decision outcome relation is there will be more acceptance of issues when the customer is more important and less acceptance for the customer with less importance. The lead-time varies for decision outcome is supported by the decision log as the reject decision takes more time then acceptance decision whereas quite contradicting result raised from the survey the main reason is said that the survey respondents are different from the case studied company so the difference is varied. This paper is useful for researchers as there is a research gap in it as there is no generalized result in this paper. This paper helps the practitioners to know the decision-making process time and whether that much time to be used or better give a decision which have less loss when implemented than wasting time to decide. <br>

My view: This paper is not that much efficient as the conducted case study is on a large scale industry where as a survey conducted mainly with small-scale industry respondents. It is better if they selected large-scale industry practitioners as their sample population so better results may be there. This paper provides the difference of decision making in large scale and small scale industries. Which can be agreed as there is quite contradict results in this paper and there is a need of further research with the basis of this paper. <br>


#### vi. P. Carlshamre, K. Sandahl, M. Lindvall, B. Regnell, J. Natt och Dag, “An industrial survey of requirements interdependencies in software product release planning”, in Proceedings of the Fifth IEEE International Symposium on Requirements Engineering, 2001. <br>

Identifying requirements interdependencies is a complex task as only 20% of requirements are responsible for the interdependencies. In this paper, the authors aim is to know the nature of interdependencies and classify them to support for release planning. A survey is conducted with five different companies, which consists small, medium and large scale companies. In each company the requirements manager (here requirements manager can be a product manager, project manager, requirements engineer) asked to select top 20 requirements that are a higher priority and from these the dependency between each pair of requirements is needed to be found.   <br>
If any pair consists of interdependencies, then the type need to be specified. There are types of interdependencies which are AND, OR, REQUIRES, TEMPORAL, ICOST, CVALUE. The RM's have authority to add a new relationship between requirements but in this survey there is no new relationships between requirements are identified. The results show that the most common type is value related which consists of ICOST and CVALUE. These are the requirements which may affect the cost or value of another requirement. Then the functional related type is there for other two companies which are AND and REQUIRES, the AND means the pair of requirements needs each requirement to function whereas in REQUIRES one requirement needs another requirement but not vice-versa. The most interesting aspect here is that market or product oriented cases have value related interdependencies are more common whereas in bespoke development projects the functional related interdependencies are most common. Then only a few requirements have no relationship with other requirements and few requirements responsible for large interdependency relationships. Then these interdependencies are visualized approach to managing these requirements.  <br>
By this, the singular requirements that are not dependent on any other requirements can be easily spotted. Also, requirements that are having the most number of interdependencies are also easily identified and lastly the requirements that are free can be scheduled to any increment. The most important is to identify the highly dependent requirements so that the number of pairwise matchings can be reduced, and also 69-79% of all dependencies can be covered through these. The selection of requirements for each release plan should be considered in a way such that there should be less number of interdependencies between iterations. So identifying the interdependencies leads to select the requirements with more dependencies in the same release. This is said to be low coupling between requirements so that each release can have a deliverable that will function. So this strategy reduces the release coupling. There is further research needed like knowing the relationship between already implemented requirements and new requirements. <br>

My view: the interdependencies between requirements are helpful to distinguish which requirements can be selected for release planning so that each release plan will have a working software. Also, the authors stated there is a need of further research like having validated this survey results and also improving the visualization of interdependencies between requirements which I also agree and by improving these can work in large scale industries. <br>



## Seminar 3

# Summary

#### i. Wnuk et al. “What Happened to Our Features? Visualization and Understanding of Scope Change Dynamics in a Large-Scale Industrial Setting” <br>

There is a dynamic change in scope of a product as decisions changed because of circumstance changes. In this paper, the authors presented a technique called feature survival charts which show the features and their respective scope changes by using various colors to identify easily. This technique is evaluated by implementing it in three projects. The practitioners that participated for implementing mainly process manager, requirements manager and key performance indicator manager. The projects are selected based on length, a number of features and possibility to analyze the scope change in the projects. The selected company used milestones and tollgates to monitor project progress by selected experts who are requirements and design teams. This three project differs in their size and complexity as many of projects are in different phases while conducting research.  <br>
The results showed that for all three projects the scope is not increased as time changes, instead the scope decreased for the features. To track the scope, the time related and feature related measurements are used in which there are subcategories. In time-related the number of positive scopes and negative scope changes per given time is measured. While in feature related feature removal time, the number of changes of a feature, time for the new feature to evolve, why a scope is changed are measured. The measurements obtained from time and feature related are analyzed by comparing the values with theory and knowledge for this is gained by interacting with requirement managers who are working on projects. After analyzing the results for three projects, the comparison is done by using a graphical representation of values. The practitioners identified the use of this technique and mentioned it is valuable for them. As it represents the change in scope easily and tracking can be done in it. It is also useful for further reference in future. As it also increases the understanding of dynamic changes easily. But it is evaluated in only one company, even though it is a large-scale company there needs to be a more analysis in other companies to have a generalized result. The technique can be further improved by having a clarity while zooming and optimizing usability. <br>

My view: The technique developed to easily view the scope changes is useful for companies and I agree with authors to use this technique in companies to easily monitor the changes of scope for their features as these features consist of requirements. For small-scale it does not show that much difference but in large-scale industries, this technique will be more useful. The implementation of this technique in companies can be done by standardizing the process and also making it more usable by increasing the usability. <br>

#### ii. Wnuk & Gorschek “Obsolete Software Requirements” <br>

Requirements which change during development and not needed at all while the project is going on are said to be obsolete requirements. In this paper, the authors conducted a research study because they found that there is little research is done on obsolete requirements such as scope creep, requirement creep. So the main aim of this research is to know what is obsolete requirements, how serious it is considered in industries, are there any category of requirements which said to be more obsolete, are there any methods exist, how they categorize these obsolete requirements with requirements which are actually using, and in which phase these need to be handled. <br>

So authors conducted a survey which is industry based and students are not involved as they do not experience in this and it also conducted in 45 countries. The survey is done to get a generalized view on this topic as there is no particular research is done so qualitative research is not done. The survey results are represented using statistical analysis with the chi-square test. The practitioners mainly said that the requirements which are not useful for present and future release are said to be obsolete requirements and these are considered to be serious by many large scale industries. The requirements which are not clear and which changes frequently have more chances to become obsolete and standards requirements have less chance. There are no particular methods and less number of tools to identify these requirements, the industries mainly use manual identification only. These identified are tagged or labeled as obsolete for future reference mainly. The phases to identify these obsolete requirements are mainly during requirement analysis and validation phases and these are to be updated regularly as there are rapid changes in requirements in market-driven development. <br>

My view: This paper focused on requirements which are not needed and how a company can focus which requirements are useful and which they do not need to be developed by using the past data of projects as these are labeled as obsolete requirements. I agree with authors as they identified new things in which the obsolete requirements need to be identified easily and there has to be a method to do it so companies can easily identify these type of requirements. <br>

## Seminar 4

# Answers

1. What tools are available for requirements management? <br>

There are many tools available for requirements management. There are types in these tools such as installable tools which can be installed in the desktop and use it, other is web-based that is these can be used from a browser. The user can select the tools based on their ease of use and need. <br>
The following list consists of some commercial and open source tools which can be used from small scale to large scale industries. <br>
>aNimble platform Link: http://sourceforge.net/projects/nimble/ <br>
>Accompa link: http://web.accompa.com/ <br>
>JIRA link: https://www.atlassian.com/software/jira <br>
>Rational DOORS link: http://www-03.ibm.com/software/products/en/ratidoor <br>
>caliber link: http://www.borland.com/en-GB/Products/Requirements-Management/Caliber <br>
>fogbugz link: http://www.fogcreek.com/fogbugz/ <br>

There are many other tools available in the market but the above tools are mostly used in the industries. <br>

2.Any particular tools for agile requirements management? <br>
There are also tools, particularly for agile requirements management. Some of them are listed below [1]:
>caliber link: http://www.borland.com/en-GB/Products/Requirements-Management/Caliber <br>
>JIRA link: https://www.atlassian.com/software/jira <br>
>Work Management link: https://planbox.com/solutions/work-project-management-software/
>versionone link: https://www.versionone.com
>scrumdesk link: http://www.scrumdesk.com/
>tinypm link: http://www.tinypm.com/
>agilo link: http://www.agilofortrac.com/

These are some best tools available for agile requirements management based on the reviews of users [1]. <br>
[1]	S. Dimitrijević, J. Jovanović, and V. Devedžić, “A comparative study of software tools for user story management,” Inf. Softw. Technol., vol. 57, pp. 352–368, 2015.

# Summary

#### "Assessing challenges of continuous integration in the context of software requirements breakdown: a case study"<br>

Continuous integration(CI) is a process in which the integration of code will be done daily multiple times so each time a build will be generated. As present software development, there is a need of quick delivery of software. SO many industries opting the agile methodology as their software development process. So by using continuous integration, the quality of the software can be maintained and time wastage can be reduced to the developers for checking their code. So for successful continuous integration, there is a need for breaking down the requirements so the small requirements are developed and integration can be done continuously. <br>
In this thesis, the authors focused on identifying the challenges in requirements breakdown and continuous integration. Then how the breakdown of requirements influences the integration process. The authors conducted a case study at Ericsson to identify the challenges and interviews to collect the data. At Ericsson the continuous integration process is done in the following way, at first, the code developed is pushed into work branch and then after the functionality is developed it pushed to latest local version branch in which tests are conducted and if it passes the tests then these new changes are pushed into pre-test build in which the regression tests are conducted and finally the code is pushed into latest stable version in which the system is tested on a whole. Each branch consists of some quality aspects, so the code passes the branch means it is integrated correctly with quality. For requirements breakdown, Ericsson has operational product owners who will prioritize the requirements so team members can easily update their sprint backlog from this product backlog. <br>
The challenges that are identified through this case study are the mindset of developers, tools, and infrastructure, software requirements, testing tools which support CI are required, code dependencies, understanding of the clear goal, domain applicability as CI may not apply to all products. These challenges will have a lot of impact on the success of continuous integration. The challenges faced in requirements breakdown are requirements abstraction as it is hard to find abstraction level to some requirements, alignment of requirements, customer value to satisfy the customer with small units in which some cases customer may think that the developed features are not useful, and guiding principle need to be there to support and provide a clear guidance to break down the requirements. <br>
The challenges like low-level requirements in which the further breakdown is not possible and access to the customer is also a major challenge. Then the influence of requirements breakdown on continuous integration is the practitioners felt that breakdown of requirements is an option, but it is not a need to implement continuous integration. The development of new features while transitioning to CI have more difficulties than maintaining the code without any new features. As breaking down the requirements leads to more issues, so there is a complexity in CI for those develop a product with features. By breaking down the requirements, the smaller units cannot be testable in the studied company, so these smaller units need to be combined into a feature to test. Through CI on-demand software delivery can be done but the number of integrations to be done need to be discussed. Also, the integration scope is to be clarified so the feature deliverable can be known. The authors stated that results from this thesis may help the practitioners in the company to checklist the challenges while implementing the CI. <br>

My view: CI is an important concept to deliver the product to the customer in a quick way. The authors identified some challenges from CI and Breakdown of requirements perspective which helps the companies to handle these challenges before integration to have a smooth process. As there is little research done in the breakdown of requirements and their influence on CI the authors contributed a good level of knowledge, and these challenges may interpret to a single company and a given project. So there needs further research in this area to have generalized challenges while implementing CI. <br>

